---
layout: post
title: updating Kali 
date: 2023-07-26-00-24-26
categories: [Uncategorized]
---

So about a week ago now I was trying to install Ghidra on my Kali VM and found that when I was trying to `$sudo apt get install ghidra` that it would yell at me that where Kali was pointed at for repos was out of date in addition to keys not being up to date.  I spent about 15 minutes trying to solve it but didn't get far, but resolved to fix it when I had more time.  Well more time came tonight and it was a struggle.  I realize that Kali may not be the typical Linux experience, but if what I experienced tonight is anything remotely what it's like trying to update a more mainstream Linux distro then there's no chance there will be a "Year of the Linux Desktop" as so many headlines will often proclaim during the beginning of a new year.

So in my journey to update my VM Kali distro, I started where I outlined above and tried to do the standard `apt get update` but that kept breaking due to keys being out of date and my distro pointing to the wrong repo.  For reference, I was still on 2021.1 when I should have been on 2023.2

So I delete the seemingly offending keys and go off on a Google rabbit hole to figure out how to update where the distro is pointing at to get updates.  I find some sites that talk about updating `/apt/etc/sources.list` to change the `http://` in the repo URL to `https://` which I do, which solved one part of my update problems.

After I get through that and try the `$apt upgrade` route which yells at me because `kali-themes-common.deb` can't be updated because of dpkg dependency errors.  So after searching around a bit I come across `apt-get install -f` which is meant to fix broken installs/depedencies.  That gets me a bit further, and I try the `upgrade` again, but this time it hangs on `Failed to activate service "org.freedesktop.systemd1 timed out" as one error that constantly comes up, along with ` "dpkg err: The exfat-utils package is not available, but some other package references it"` 

For the first error it was an issue of running `sudo kill 1` and for good measure `systemctl daemon-reexec` to reloaed the daemon.  As for the second error that was solved with `apt install exfatprogs`

After this I attempted to `apt upgrade` and yet *again* was met with a missing `kali-themes-common` message.  Luckily a StackOverflow post pointed out to use:

```
$dpkg --force-all --configure -a
$ dpkg --purge --force-depends kali-desktop-base
$ dpkg --purge --force-depends kali-themes-common
$ dpkg --purge --force-depends kali-themes
$apt --fix-broken install
$apt-get -f install
```

Finally after all of that I was finally able to update and upgrade my Kali Linux to 2023.2 and then FINALLY install Ghidra.

A good learning experience, but what a pain in the ass.


